All right.
Let's begin with the actual foot control bone this main foot control.
I'll select that and let's use a circle for this a select circle.
And remember we want to use that foot control SEO dot L right here and that spins it around like that
and that's kind of nice.
We could probably reduce the size just a little bit.
Let me try.
Point nine here.
Just so it sticks out a little bit there.
Like that but isn't going over the center of the grid.
Let me try.
Point nine five.
Yeah.
I think that worked pretty well.
All right.
So now let's take this bone here and hide it away
onto layer two.
Now let's work on this one here.
This bone and this bone and the need I think I may use a sphere for all of those.
So let's select that foot roll bone.
Let's choose a sphere and let's also then bind that foot roll control object here on the left.
Nope.
That's the foot control I need the foot roll and that.
Here it is.
Foot roll underscore CEO dot l.
Let's move that they're and let's scale this down on click and drag and let's see that's not bad let's
go with Point two there and let's take this bone then and move it away to the other layer.
Okay there we have that let's work on the toe let's select the toe bone let's choose a sphere for this
let's find that toe bone or that toe control object.
Here it is toe control object dot l.
Here it is and let's shrink this down quite a bit.
Let's go with point three on that and once again your scale numbers will probably be different sense
the size of your control object bones will probably be a little different.
All right so let's now select the knee and this as well we're gonna want a sphere and we want a knee
control object need control object dot l we go and we'll shrink this down like that I'll put that at
point three Okay so let's select this bone and this bone move those two layer to right there so we don't
see them and then let's come over and do the same thing over here.
So this foot control bone right here we're gonna want a circle and we want it to match the transform
of that foot control here it is but control object dot Ah there we go and what I do.
Point nine five I think so.
Yep there we go And now let's take this bone and hide it away in Layer two we go and this bone here
we want a sphere and we want that to be at the same location as that but roll control objects.
So right here and what did we do.
Point two over here so it's like that point to where we go now let's do the toe that'll be a sphere
as well we want to control object are
right here and I recall it was point three.
That looks about right now the NE sphere
ne control object
ne control object.
Ah there we go.
And what's this point three as well yep it looks like it.
Okay so now we take this bone this bone and this bone and hide them away in Layer two and then we go.
So now we've got all of those.
Now we just really need to take these bones and hide them away as well.
So if we take this and this and this and this and this hide these away layer to well there is one
guy and then these know me go in and get these like this and we'll probably have that one more we've
got to deal with.
Yeah there it is
and there we go.
OK.
So now we have all of our bones over here.
All of those control object bones et cetera and our control objects over here.
So now we can just select our control objects and move the character around and this is how we'll animate
them.
So we can select this let's say and hit R and roll it up on the toe and back on the heel.
All right.
We can select this foot control object and move it around.
So this is how we'll actually animate the character but in doing so it might be helpful to kind of color
code these control objects so we can see very easily which ones are on the right side which ones are
on the left side and which ones are in the center.
So let's work on that.
I think what let's do is come over here to our bone groups panel right here.
And what we can do is select say some of these let's select everything going down the center of the
character the torso the hips the head anything in the center.
And let's create a new group and we'll call this center.
We'll just call this our center bones and we'll click a sign and then we go.
Now what we can do is we can come up here and click on this default color pull down and I think for
the center everything in the center I'm going to make yellow.
And there we go.
So anything in the middle is going to be yellow.
We'll be able to see that very easily as we're animating now everything on the right hand side let's
make all of this red red for the right side let's create a new group here we'll call this right side
click a sign and let's make this red right here.
Yeah.
There we go.
Oh we need to add these down here so let's grab this.
This this and the knee on the right hand side as well.
And let's click a sign and here we go OK.
So now on this other side let's make this other side.
Green or blue whichever you want.
I think I'll make mine green.
I'll call this left side
I'll sign.
And then let's find a nice green.
Here's a nice bright green.
Let's do that and we go and these down here and let's select this and these and let's sign those.
There we go.
So now everything on the right side is red on the left is green down the center is yellow.
So that's just going to help us quickly identify what we need as we're animating.
In addition what I'd like to do is turn off in front here.
You can turn this off so we don't see the back side of the control objects through the character.
All right.
So if we're looking at this side we only see the control objects for the arm on this side.
We don't see the other ones over there that'll just once again make things a little easier to select.
All right.
And then well we could just close that and go over to our look Dev here and there we go there is how
we'll animate our character.
I think we're ready to go.
So in the next section we're going to try and animate this character both the 3D body and a 2D face
at the same time.
But first we need to do a little setup so that we can draw the face on the head and we'll begin that
coming up next.